[MUSIC]
>> Rachel Nabors: So there's a downside
stacking I mean it can be a little tough.
If you have four or
five different animations on one element.
Honestly though, I don't know what you'd
be doing to get to that level but okay,
let's say,
you are an animation maniac maybe you're
doing some really intense bouncing.
And instead of using key frames, you've
decided that you need all these bounces
to have their own different kinds
of individual key frames, and
you wanna call them with
an animation stack.
There is,
well in addition to needing some serious
Sass mixins to calculate those durations.
Watch what happens when I'm using stacked
animations with touch on my own site.
Once again, I'm using my own site so
if I embarrass anyone it's me.
Zooming in and zooming out.
Zooming in, zooming out, pinching getting
out of the context now watch her eyeballs
are going to disappear.
>> Rachel Nabors: [SOUND]
they're gone and then suddenly she's
got the new facial expression.
[SOUND] what went wrong there?
Obviously, some things were out of sync,
I can't tell you exactly what
happened there because I
don't have I don't have
the stats from safaris CPU.
But I can tell you a little bit
about what might be happening there.
CSS animations and transitions,
they run on the system's clock and
if the main thread is crowded so much.
So that it takes the browser
a long time to get back to it or
if it's confused about where the current
animation should be on that clock.
It can jump, it can cause jumps, this was
really noticeable back when Safari would
pause all animations on Chester.
So if you'd be scrolling or
swiping all the animations would pause.
That problem would happen all the time
in that situation because the CSS
was trying to jump ahead to
where the system clock was, but
it wasn't actually bothering to wait and
do its animations.
This is less of a problem today, but
every once in a while you still
see some residuals from that.
So we're gonna need something
a little bit more robust,
you also have to consider that animations.
Say you have a page with an animation
on it that takes ten seconds, right?
It's a full ten second long animation,
didn't put a play button on it like I
told you to but that's all right, I
understand, we all go through that phase.
So that site takes a full,
I don't know, five seconds to load.
It's a slow connection or
you're just really,
really bad at condensing
all your CSS into one file.
That's okay,
we all go through that phase too.
So your browser the page isn't fully
rendered until five seconds in.
The animation will actually be running
from five seconds in itself half way
through its completion.
When the page is fully rendered that's
why we use things like load events and
scope those animations
to classes like loaded.
Because that way we know they're not
starting on the system clock before
anything's on the page.
So that's a gotcha to
remember about animations.
They're always paying attention to the
system clock so make sure they're starting
when you tell them to.
>> Rachel Nabors: So
there are a couple of ways around this,
one is overloading keyframes.
We can overload the keyframes block,
this is actually a handy technique
you can use, check this out.
So there's only one animation dash
whatever property that you can use inside
a keyframes block, and
that is an animation timing function.
Believe it or not, you can change
the animation timing function
halfway through your keyframes block.
You could be changing it
from linear to ease in, and
then make it ease out
on the next one down.
This is pretty cool,
you can do bounces with this.
Here's a demo, I'm gonna demo this one for
you because I'm not gonna make you
go through this one on your own.
I like it too much for that, so let's
change this view and notice he sits down.
My goodness, how does he sit
down with only one CSS animation
what did I do what black magic and
sorcery have I engaged in for this?
Well, here it is combined cycle and
that looks so simple, how did I do that?
Well, combined cycle is a little complex,
you'll notice that the background
position at 0% is fine but
I'm also setting the steps to 12 in
here the animation timing function.
Now at exactly 66.6666, not a bad sign,
I change that background position.
But then at 0.00 something 1% later, so
the change is instantaneous It's
not animated between these.
I transition the background over
to the negative 400 pics and
scooted over to the other side
of it's sprite where there's
the sit down cycle and
use the steps five function there.
There you go, so
if I didn't put steps five in here,
>> Rachel Nabors: It would use linear,
or pardon me, it would use ease
instead of using the steps.
>> Rachel Nabors: So yes and by the way,
keep in mind when you're setting animation
timing functions inside key frames block.
The functions describe the timing function
that the next key frame block should,
the next part of the key
frame block should use.
Like to get from 0% to 66%
we gonna use steps 12 and
then from 66% to 66.67% to
100% we're gonna use steps 5.
Sometimes I get a little tripped
up about where it should be put.
Putting my custom animation timing
functions in my key frames box but
that's how you can keep in mind.
>> Rachel Nabors: So
there are some downsides to this,
and they are pretty big downsides.
You don't get to loop those animations,
I mean what would we be doing?
Looping tuna sitting down?
Come on seriously this would be so
sad, this is the most that we can do.
[SOUND] Let's see what
it looks like when we
try to run it twice, while he walks and
he sits down and
then he walks and he sits down.
I don't get to loop him.
I don't get to loop his walking cycle
twice, I don't have any control
over that by overloading the the key
frames I have, let go of that ability.
You only get one timing function at
a time for all animation properties, so
that means even if I were to change his
background color like in between 0% and
100% like let's see.
Let's say I'm gonna say
background-color red.
All right, and you like that looked good,
Rachel maybe you could do background color
white down here.
>> Rachel Nabors: But
you can't actually, actually that's kind
of hard to see maybe I'll slow this down.
No, I can't actually but
the point is that the colors are tied,
so you think,
well what if you put that to 30%.
So it's like 30%, background color white.
Nope, it's still being
sucked in by that one,
timing function.
>> Rachel Nabors: And lastly,
it's mathy, you've gotta do a little
bit of math to get the timing right.
Of course, you could write a Saas
mixin that does your math for
you, that's what I do.
But not all of us wanna do that, so
for the rest of us we're gonna have to
come up with more robust technique.
And for that, we have something very
special in our friend JavaScript,
we have specific for
animation event listeners.
All right, let me describe each of
them before must have JavaScript
event listeners for handling CSS
animations and transitions are [SOUND].
Animationstart which fires when
an animation begins animation end which
fires when the animation has completed or
stopped it will never fire
if it is running infinitely.
Animation iteration which fires every
time it has completed its route from 0%
to 100% or if you've got it set
to reverse from 100% to 0%.
And transitionend which fires only
when a transition has completed.
I'm surprised that there's no
transitionstart event, but okay, whatever,
we'll go with it.
Thanks W3C, maybe one day.
Maybe there will be a need for
it, a demonstrable need.
We can scope these to some
fairly complex chains but
you must keep in mind there's one gotcha.
These will fire for every animation or
transition on an event.
So it makes sense if you're good
with your CSS JavaScript foo,
do a little bit of detection to make sure
that the event firing the transition or
animation on end, etc.,
is the one you're expecting.
Maybe it's the correct property.
Maybe it's the correct rule.
>> Rachel Nabors: So
of course, there are browser
prefixes to keep in mind.
Number one Webkit it's all camel case.
WebkitAnimationIteration uses for
Webkit based browsers.
Microsoft of course
starts with capitals MSA.
MSAnimationIteration for IE 10 and
everybody else uses all lowercase,
no camelCase.
I kind of wish that
the i were capitalized,
I would have appreciated that cuz
they all look the same to me.
I don't know why it's like that,
I probably [INAUDIBLE] it JavaScript
function to map them all but
that's just me.
But anyway [COUGH]